“Photogrammetry is the science of making measurements from photographs”

Conflict:
I did not like the idea of creating a duplicate object. Looking back now I most certainly had a bias against the digital creation of a duplicate. I shared the same feelings as Morris when it came to the creation of art. There was something detached and cold about just taking pictures and then letting a software piece things together when it should be you. I now realize that I didn’t have a bias towards duplicate, I had a bias towards the feelings it conveyed. I made stamps for a long time and the print were technically duplicates of what had carved, the difference was they all had some little bit of individuality. I do not delude myself into thinking it was how the ink would spread differently, I know that it was because of the time, work, effort, and expression that went into creating it. There was physical evidence of these things; the built up ink for all the prints, the glued in pieces of rubber that fell off, and how over time the stamp got flatter and the prints changed completely. They carried an aura. 

Resolution: I had addressed my actual bias and conflict with this project. I was honest with myself and allowed myself to express these feelings because this is my project. I am going to be doing this stuff for the rest of the semester, and its fair to me to not address it. I don’t have any kind of background in digital creation or history, or humanities, so I felt a bit out of place when talking to other students in the class. Everything I know is based on visual arts and English literature. So I had to come to terms with myself first before getting anywhere. I found my resolution in what Bethany Nowviskie said in her text; “When Morris frets about “the machine sticking or what not,” it is with an uncharacteristic voice. He offers the plaint of a passive tool user—not of the capable artisan we are accustomed to, who might be expected to fashion and refine and forge an intimate relationship with the instruments of his work. The resistance in the typewriter Morris imagines, and the resistance digital humanities novices feel when they pick up fresh tool sets or enter new environments, is different from the productive “resistance in the material” encountered by earlier generations of computing humanists. It’s different from that happy resistance still felt by hands-on creators of humanities software and encoding systems.”
Just because the tool is a computer instead of a pencil, that does not mean there is no value within the process and the final product. How the aura is captured and how the final duplicate object retains its value is just different. The value is still in the time, work, effort, and expression that went into creating it. That value doesn’t diminish and evidence is in the coding, the broken pieces, and the failed products. There is still value, and with that thought I started the project. 
