Open note book 
I’ve added some notes I took from the discussions in class, they are italicized and can be mostly ignored as they do not hold a lot of significance.

What do I want out of this?

Because this object has an incredible visual prowess I wanted to make sure that I could capture those feelings. I wanted a lot of detail and colour but I wasn’t to worried about texture. I think the this is going to be the hardest part of this project especially after reading one of the core concept texts by Walter Benjamin 

Planing to fail 

I started off with reading up on 3d technology. I read through the core concepts again and also a few articles. I wanted to use the programme called Recap by Autodesk because it seemed to be the best free software I could find. Unfortunately it was only available on windows so I  decided on Regard3d. When I was going through one article on photogrammetry on sculpteo I found an article on cleaning up meshes and they used meshmixer and meshlab so I downloaded those as well. 

Notes from class: I think I've come to understand one thing that both artistic and historical values share (in regards to this project and the fabrication of twin objects) it's not about the object itself, it's about what comes after it. I was reading an article on asteroids and meteors and what one of the scientists said was really inspiring and motivated me to push through with this project. Because I didn't understand the question the project was based off of. Basically what they said was that even though all the materials found within that piece of rock and metal could be found on earth, it was the fact that it had travelled across the galaxy, that it had been placed no human has ever been before, that made it special. Because it inspired ideas and theories and dreams.


The first day I took photos I ended up using my digital camera. Originally I wanted to use my camera, my iPhone, and my tablet but I ran out of time. I had an idea to try out two different methods with different kinds of photos. The first was to take picture of the box on different angles, and the second was to use the different angles but also include picture of small details like the stickers and then put that into the software as well.

This is diagram of the set up I used for the 1st round of photos. These photos didn’t work out because of 2 main things; the glare on created by the lights, and the busy background. The whole surface of the tool box reflects light creating glare which is a problem that I continuously have to deal with through out this process. 



I changed the set up and then did another set of photos. This time when I took photos I changed the settings on the camera. I put it on action mode which lets my camera take several pictures quickly when I hold down the trigger. When I held down the trigger I slowly moved to the side as much as much as I can before adjusting the position of the box. I took 212 photos of the box but only 130 or so ended being the same focal length. 

In the article I read on sculpteo it said to only use photos that had the same focal length. The first time I use this photoset in regard3d I set the settings to accommodate a large object because I thought that since the photo was just of the tool box it would be considered large. 3d objects are made up of 2 layers that create a mesh. The first layer is a sparse point cloud which is the matches found in regard 3d, and a dense point cloud which is triangulation. The sparse point cloud only had a few points that only really made up 1 side of the box. After this I tried ever single combination possible with the settings and still wasn’t getting enough matches and points. Eventually I knew I had to take another round of photos. Before I did that though I tried to cut out the box’s on about 60 photo’s in photoshop and put them into the program. I think what went wrong was maybe the focal length changed because the size of the box varied in every picture. The point cloud was messed up and there was a lot of noise. There were random floating pieces and one side of the box was missing. 

Notes from class: today we touched on the topic of the humanities and their importance and of course I had to relate everything back to Northrop Frye and his essay the importance of the humanities it's and excellent read that, even though takes on the more literate side of the argument, conveys a similar message to one of the core principle articles...... I can't remember which one.

When I was thinking about how to solve the issues I was facing with the photos. I knew it was the glare on the reflective surface that was disrupting the program from creating matches. I was watching a behind the scenes video on The Hobbit. The video is about Benedict Cumberbatch and the team of animation artists have these dots covering his face and then I realized those are used as points of triangulation to show muscle movement. Muscles change forms but that isn't always visible on the surface so they put the dots so they create facial expressions on the dragon that are anatomically correct. So I dotted little black dots all over the tool box using a marker. Then for the glare I hung a dark purple cloth for the background. The cool toned purple is a contrasting colour to the red if you look at the places on the colour wheel. The purple is darker then the red if you convert the colours to grey scales which means that the light reflected off of it wont show up on the box. This is just basic colour theory. So I set up for a 3rd round of photos. 



This time I was extra careful with the lighting. I put a piece of cloth over my lamp and turned off the lights in my room. The natural sun light coming into my room was defused by the curtains so it created a soft light that was a little stronger than my lamp. After I took the photos I edited them just in photos on my Mac. I enhanced the photos and then reduced the brightness. This reduced the soft glare that I managed to avoid in a few photos but not all. It also made the black dots stand out more. I really thought that this photoset would work. The only problem was that only 19 of the photos ended up being the same focal length. I decided to try it anyways, and first used the default settings when computing the points. The sparse point cloud didn’t even show up on the screen and when I did the triangulation  only one surface was made. At this point I was really frustrated. I went back online and googled how to get rid of glare in photoshop but the process would take forever and with my mediocre computer skills it wasn’t an option if I wanted to make deadline. So then I googled how to get rid of glare on an object for photography and found that some people dust powder on objects to get rid of glare. So I went to shoppers drug mart and got some translucent powder from the makeup aisle.

Notes from class: This project to me is visual story telling. When you look at my artifact i want it to tell you something about its history without you having to read something. We also touched on virtual reality but I didn’t get a chance to say what I wanted to. With the new technology how we build 3d objects from the ground up and even from photos is going to change. We will be able to conduct full body scans of buildings, landscapes, etc and then build/piece them together right before our eyes with our digital bare hands. All that is gonna be for the artists. The ones who build and design these things. I seriously think the only way you're gonna be able to use these tools is if you have an understanding of visual art. Just the historical understanding isn't gonna be enough anymore. Its not less important, but not enough. The skills we are learning in this class should help us to navigate these kinds of new software with ease. Why? Because doing these kinds of projects allows for you to become comfortable with perspective, understanding the mechanics of the object, knowing how to take pictures for a proper render (which I failed at), all these sorts of things. I don’t think its fair to undermine the visual aspects of these kinds of things.



This is the final set I did for the photos. I dusted the tool box with powder and made sure there was lots of lighting. I put my camera on a table and set a timer so that the position of the camera wouldn’t change. I also changed the settings on the camera to make the image quality RAW and extra fine. I took around 40 shots of the tool box, then I enhanced and cropped them. When I put them into the programme it looked promising at first but still failed. 

What I did next out of desperation was go through each and every set and try every single combination of settings in regard3d and hope that I had missed something or stumbled upon something new. What I ended up with was this information that I organized into a chart which can be found in the paradata. Its 4am Saturday, I start this project 12 days ago and there is no more time for me to do anything else. So I went about created a few surfaces from the various picture sets and went with the one that I thought looked the best. 
